- [Instructor] Several core interfaces form the foundation
that the Java collection framework is built upon.
Let's explore what they are, their hierarchy,
and some patterns for working with them.
Here's a look at the top level interfaces
where you'll find collections like list, set, and map.
These should sound familiar from our earlier discussions.
Within this group, inheritance is used to build a hierarchy,
so it's common for interfaces to extend other interfaces
in the collections framework.
The collection interface is the common parent
that is extended by other interfaces,
like list, queue, and set.
That means you'll find some of the same methods
appearing on each of them
because they inherit from the collection interface.
In addition to having these things in common,
each interface has its own unique behaviors that defines it.
For example, the list and queue maintain an order
among the group of elements that they store
and the set doesn't allow for duplicate elements.
The map interface is still considered
a part of the collections framework,
but you'll notice that it doesn't inherit
from the base collection interface.
It forms its own type hierarchy,
but doesn't deviate too far from the patterns
that will be used for other collections.
We can expand upon this view
to include some of the most common concrete classes
the framework provides as implementations
of these interfaces.
These are the types you'll need to instantiate
when working with a collection.
The most frequently used implementations
are ArrayList and HashMap,
so we'll get really familiar with those.
If you inspect the implementations closely,
you can break them down into two parts:
the interface which determines their methods
and the implementation style
for how the underlying data structure works.
The naming conventions used by a collection
give us some clues about how it works
because they reveal the implementation style
and the type of interface.
The first part of the name defines the implementation
and the last part tells us the interface.
So you'll notice ArrayList, HashMap.
First the implementation, then the interface.
You'll also notice that multiple implementation styles
can be combined, LinkedHashSet.
It might be easier to understand
if we look at some of the most commonly used implementations
against a matrix that shows their intersection
of the interface and implementation.
Here, you can see the whole group on the matrix.
At first, it might feel a little intimidating
to learn all of these collection types,
but don't be intimidated because if you focus
on learning the collection interface well,
you can quickly learn a large part of the framework.
That's because the majority of the collection types
inherit from the collection interface.